---
title: 'The next chapter: EpicAI.pro'
date: 2025-04-10
description: "What I'm working on with AI education and why I think it's the future."
categories:
  - ai
meta:
  keywords:
    - ai
    - mcp
    - education
    - epicai.pro
bannerCloudinaryId: unsplash/photo-1500674425229-f692875b0ab7
bannerAlt: Photo of island and thunder
bannerCredit: Photo by [Johannes
  Plenio](https://unsplash.com/photos/photo-of-island-and-thunder-E-Zuyev2XWo)
---

For over a decade, we've embarked on learning journeys together. From mastering
JavaScript testing fundamentals with
[TestingJavaScript.com](https://www.testingjavascript.com), to diving deep into
React with [EpicReact.dev](https://www.epicreact.dev), and building robust
full-stack applications with [EpicWeb.dev](https://www.epicweb.dev), my focus has
always been on teaching the _enduring principles_ and _practical applications_
that empower you to build great software and advance your careers.

Now, I see **the landscape shifting again**, perhaps more profoundly than ever
before. We're standing at the edge of a new era in application development, one
driven by Artificial Intelligence. But it's not just about sprinkling some AI
features onto existing apps. It's about a fundamental transformation in **how
users interact with technology** and, consequently, **how we need to architect
our applications**.

![A visual metaphor representing the evolution of user interfaces: On the left, dimly lit, slightly fragmented traditional UI elements (buttons, forms, menus). On the right, brightly glowing, abstract representations of conversational AI and interconnected services communicating seamlessly. A subtle, luminous pathway connects the two sides, showing a transition. Style: Clean digital art, optimistic, futuristic, tech-focused, blue and purple hues](https://res.cloudinary.com/kentcdodds-com/image/upload/kentcdodds.com/content/blog/the-next-chapter-epicai-pro/abstract-new-interaction-model)

The familiar paradigm of forms, buttons, links, and direct manipulation is
evolving. Users, increasingly comfortable with conversational AI, will expect
digital experiences that are adaptive, context-aware, deeply personalized, and
capable of accomplishing complex tasks across multiple services with simple
instructions. Think less clicking, more telling. Think a single input – text,
voice, maybe even video – driving sophisticated workflows orchestrated by an
intelligent agent.

This isn't science fiction; the early signs are everywhere. And as these AI
agents become more capable (think Jarvis, but real and tailored to each user),
they'll need **tools** to interact with the digital world on our behalf. They'll
need ways to book that meeting, reserve that soccer field, order those
groceries, or manage complex project updates.

**And that's where we, as developers, come in.** We need to build the interfaces
for these AI agents. We need to architect our applications not just for human
eyes and fingers, but for machine understanding and interaction.

### Introducing EpicAI.pro

This realization has led me to my next major focus, and I'm thrilled to announce
it today: **EpicAI.pro**.

**[EpicAI.pro](https://epicai.pro/)** is my new place to teach you how to build
the next generation of applications – applications architected for intelligent
interaction and powered by AI.

Consistent with the philosophy behind Epic React and Epic Web, EpicAI.pro won't
be about chasing fleeting trends or hyping specific vendor tools. Instead, we
will focus on the **foundational principles and sound architectural practices**
needed to build robust, maintainable, and genuinely intelligent systems. We'll
explore:

1.  **Designing for AI Interaction:** How do we fundamentally rethink
    application structure when the primary "user" might be an AI agent acting on
    behalf of a human?
2.  **Structuring Data and Capabilities:** How can we expose our application's
    services in a way that AI can reliably understand and utilize?
3.  **Understanding Context Protocols:** Diving deep into emerging standards
    like the **Model Context Protocol (MCP)**, which provides a framework for
    this AI-to-application communication. MCP allows AI agents to discover,
    understand, and use your app's capabilities securely and predictably.
4.  **Building Secure & Reliable Systems:** Addressing the unique challenges,
    like authentication/authorization, security (challenges like
    "tool poisoning"), and reliability, that arise when letting AI interact with
    our systems.

![An intricate, glowing digital schematic illustrating the architecture for AI interaction. Show stylized representations of different application services as nodes connected by well-defined, structured, luminous pathways, visualizing the concept of a protocol like MCP enabling reliable communication with a central AI agent core. Style: Sophisticated digital blueprint, abstract tech illustration, focusing on structure and connection, predominantly blue and white glows on a dark background](https://res.cloudinary.com/kentcdodds-com/image/upload/v1744270501/kentcdodds.com/content/blog/the-next-chapter-epicai-pro/architecting-mcps)

My goal is to equip you with the knowledge and skills to become architects of
these sophisticated, AI-driven user experiences. The future belongs to
applications designed for intelligent interaction, and the developers who
understand how to build them will be leading the way.

### Why This Focus? Why Now?

For me, this isn't just about jumping on the AI bandwagon. I'm generally a
pretty skeptical person (I've been teaching you all React for a decade now).
We've seen hyped things that would "change everything" come and go (blockchain,
NFTs, smart contracts, web3, etc.). I'm not a "jump on the hype train" kind of
software professional.

No, what it's always been about for me is recognizing where the most significant
potential for improving user experiences lies. Imagine the accessibility gains
when users can interact with any service via voice or text, bypassing complex
UIs entirely. Imagine the efficiency when a single request can orchestrate
actions across multiple, previously siloed applications without brittle, custom
integrations.

This requires a new way of thinking, structuring our applications, and
integrating capabilities. There's a long way to go, but the potential here is
solid. It's an architectural challenge, and solving architectural challenges
with solid principles is what I love teaching most. This feels like the natural
evolution of the problems we've been solving in web development, applied to a
powerful new interaction model.

### Our First Step: Join Me for a Live Event

EpicAI.pro is currently under construction, but the shift towards intelligent
experiences is happening _now_. To give you a concrete look at what this future
entails and our role in building it, I'm hosting a **free live online event**:

**Letting AI Interface with Your App with MCPs** _Live Zoom Session_
**Wednesday, April 16th @ 9:30 AM Mountain Time**

[![Kent waving at you with a play button over his face](https://res.cloudinary.com/kentcdodds-com/image/upload/v1744270550/kentcdodds.com/content/blog/the-next-chapter-epicai-pro/kent-waves-mcps)](https://www.epicdev.ai/ai-your-app-mcps-2025-04-16)

In this session, I'll dive into the practicalities. I'll **live-code an MCP
server** and demonstrate how an AI assistant can use it to interact with an
application's capabilities. We'll catch a vision of what this future looks like
and discuss how we can start building towards it. There will also be plenty of
time for Q&A.

<callout-danger>
	**Please note:** A recording will _not_ be made available afterwards, so
	you'll definitely want to catch this one live!
</callout-danger>

### Let's Build the Future, Together

This is a new frontier, and like all frontiers, it presents both challenges and
incredible opportunities. I'm genuinely excited to explore it and share what I
learn with you. If you're ready to understand the principles behind AI-powered
application architecture and position yourself at the forefront of this
evolution, I invite you to join me.

Registering for the live event is the best way to get started and ensure you
receive future updates, insights, and resources from EpicAI.pro as it develops.

<callout-success>
	➡️ **[Register for the Live Event & EpicAI.pro
	Updates](https://www.epicdev.ai/ai-your-app-mcps-2025-04-16)** ⬅️
</callout-success>

I believe this is the next big leap in application development, and I can't wait
to navigate it with this amazing community.

Let's build something epic, again!
